# Good coding practices

## Interesting resources
https://raps-with-r.dev
This is a book on how to make a reproducible workflow in R. The main messages are:
- Don't repeat yourself
- Write it down

It focuses on:
- version control
- functional programming
- literate programming

https://do4ds.com/
It's more focused on DevOps (applied to data science) with interesting chapters on:
- creating virtual environment
- creating and using APIs
- interaction with databases
- Using docker
- working on the cloud

## Functions as a way to organize the code
Writing functions is good when you need to repeat yourself. It makes code more reproducible and organized. 
Once we have the functions we can write synthetic code. It also becomes easier to trace back what is not working. 
Sometimes the function does not have an argument, it can be just a way to wrap-up code that you need to run multiple times.

## Organizing folder structure
It's important to be consistent. Always see the same folder: codes, functions, data and results. Having the same structure helps remember where things are.
Write a readme file, both for yourself and other people. It's good to have a reader on top of the script that gives more information on what the script is doing.
Provide comments in the code, but also think about using clear file and object names. 
Use the Roxygen format to document the functions you create. Can do this by 'code' > 'Insert Roxygen skeleton'. You can give more information on
the parameters, what it returns and then show an example of the function. It is a standard so everyone will be able to read it. If you make a package it uses this as well.
If there are functions you use a lot, it might be worth to wrap some custom functions into a package.

## Creating a package
Create new directory > new package. Create a function. Insert Roxygen skeleton. ´devtools::document()´. Can put it on Github for other people to download using devtools.

## Best practices
- Use version control (gitlab/github).
- Use package management (like 'renv').
- Maintain a tidy & consistent file structure.
### Document your work
- Include a clear README
- Add comments for functions and parameters (include the WHY).
- Name your code sections.
- Treat scripts as stand-alone, don't rely on memory.
- Write modular code with functions.
### Follow a consistent style
- Use proper indentation and spacing
- Use meaningful variable and functio names
- Follow a style guide (e.g. tidyverse style guide)
### Write modular code with functions
- Avoid redundant code
- Use functions to improve clarity and reusability
- Beware of large for-loops.

## Tips and tricks
- Use quarto to have the code together with some description. 
- Use Obsidian for note-taking and documentating the process.
